# Airline Safety
This is a 5 part project.

## The Scenario
Due to recent unfortunate airline crashes, the media has been promoting statistics stating air is no longer a safe way to travel. The news and media outlets have been bombarding the public with reports and figures about the trends of airline safety and that things are not looking good. What was previously thought as the safest way to travel, especially when compared to automobiles, is now being presented as one of the most dangerous to the public. But are any of these claims based on facts?

I work for an airline on the data science team as a data analyst and a resident data visualization expert. I have been tasked with helping multiple groups in the organization combat this negative publicity and help tell the airline's side of the story. There is a fear internally about what this type of media coverage will do to airline sales and how it could impact the future of the company. Not only do they need me to help create some internal communications, but I am also tasked with what is published to the public and the media.

### Task 1
I am tasked with creating an internal dashboard for my peers and data science management team that outlines the facts – what are the stats and what are the trends? Is there any supplemental data that I can use to support that air travel is still in fact the safest? Is there anything politically going on that would cause this type of media attention to be at a peak – remember, this is for an internal review by my peers and management – and will likely spark a lot of discussion for how I approach the next level of discussion with your executive leadership team. Is there anything to show sales are down or are headed that way? Do the safety incidents appear to be in a specific geographic area or by a specific airline every time? Do some analysis of the data you have and look for other sources to see what I can find to help inform my internal team.

### Task 2
My dashboard was well received by the internal team and while some of the information was news to everyone, the entire consensus was that it is ready to be prepped for an executive review, so the external communications can be started. My next task is to prepare an executive summary summarizing my findings and telling the story of what I found.

My audience will be senior leaders that care about the portrayal of the industry and their airline specifically. They also want to make sure they are being ethical and sharing information that isn’t misleading. This presentation will set the tone for how the media is addressed going forward with the information and facts that need to be shared. Also remember that this audience regularly speaks with shareholders – so any information I can find to help predict future risks and the position of the company will be beneficial to the conversation. For example, if I found information that indicates where future sales will be impacted or where there are safety risks – this is important information to raise to this group.
